# Clip Assessment for Edna Hernandez

This code will add, show, list and sum transactions. The purpose of this code is to proved an initial assessment for Edna Hernandez

## Getting Started

To run the code in your computer, you will need to go through the following steps:

### Prerequisites

Java 8 is required. To check your Java version, you should run the following command:

```
java -version
```

### Installing

You only need to clone this repository. It contains an already compiled package for execution.


## Running the tests

For adding a transaction:

```
./application.sh <user_id> add <json_transaction>
```

An example for the Json Transaction is:

```
"{ \"amount\": 1.23, \"description\": \"Joes Tacos\", \"date\":\"2018-12-30\", \"user_id\": 123 }"
```

For showing a transaction, consider the transaction ID the one returned by the add function:

```
./application.sh <user_id> show <transaction_id>
```

For listing all transaction that belong to an user:

```
./application.sh <user_id> list
```

For adding all the transaction ammounts that belong to an user:

```
./application.sh <user_id> sum
```


## Built With

* [Springboot](https://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/) - Java framework
* [Gradle](https://gradle.org/) - Build Tool

### Database design and RDBMS election

The initial table for this application would be:

TRANSACTION
* id: Autogenerated Integer.
* amount: Number with 6 integers and 2 decimals.
* description: Varchar with 200 positions.
* date: Date.
* user_id: Integer.

For this particular case, the user is not defined but in a real scenario, a User table would be needed and a foreign key in the Transaction table referring to the User should be included.

A general USER table would be:
* id: Autogenerated Integer.
* first_name: Varchar with 80 positions.
* last_name: Varchar with 80 positions.

As RDBMS I would choose MySQL as initial approach. For development, it is a simple but powerful option. With the given information, it would serve for a considerable volume of information. Depending on the future needs, Oracle could be considered.